# The presence of titanium dioxide in products contributing to oral exposure: a systematic review

# Abstract
In 2021, the European Commission decided to ban titanium dioxide as a food additive in the European Union due to concerns that it may be harmful to humans when ingested - a decision likely to be echoed in other regions and industries. While titanium dioxide is characteristically found in food, its application extends to many domains. The aim of this systematic review was to gather all available data on the concentration of titanium dioxide in orally consumed products, namely food, dietary supplements, pharmaceuticals and certain personal care products, since these are considered to be the main sources of exposure in the general population. A literature search in Web of Science, Scopus and Google yielded 50 studies, totaling 627 products found across many different categories. A hierarchical Bayesian model was used to estimate the median concentration in each category of products, at four different levels of aggregation. The overall median concentration was estimated at 668 (563 - 785) mg/kg, while estimates across categories ranged between 2 (1-7) mg/kg in cheese products and 2,288 (1,362 - 3,568) mg/kg in dietary supplements. For individual products, concentrations up to 51,000 mg/kg were found. These results suggest that titanium dioxide is still present in many orally consumed products available worldwide and in considerable concentrations. By taking into account multiple oral routes of exposure, this systematic review provides a valuable source of information for any future risk assessments of titanium dioxide. The overarching aim is to hereby obtain more informed public health policies that will protect the safety of consumers by going beyond the traditional `one exposure - one health effect' approach.

# Purpose

This repository contains data and code to replicate the results.
